plugins/portainer-tools/skills/portainer-control/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: portainer-control
description: Start, stop, or restart a Docker container on a Portainer-managed host. Use when asked to restart, stop, or start a specific container.
argument-hint: "<start|stop|restart> <container-name> [on <host>]"
user-invocable: true
allowed-tools: [Bash]
---

## User Input

```text
$ARGUMENTS
```

Control (start/stop/restart) a named container on a Docker host via the Portainer API.

## Steps

1. Parse `$ARGUMENTS`:
   - Extract action: `start`, `stop`, or `restart`
   - Extract container name
   - Extract host if specified after `on` (e.g. `on docker01`)

2. Run:

```bash
python3 ${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/scripts/portainer.py control <action> <container> [--host <host>]
```

   Example: `python3 ${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/scripts/portainer.py control restart grafana --host docker01`

3. Report the script output to the user.

4. If the script reports multiple matches, ask the user to specify the host.

5. If `PORTAINER_PASS` is not set, tell the user to `export PORTAINER_PASS=yourpassword` before invoking.

Commit message:

Update authentication method to use Portainer API token instead of password

plugins/portainer-tools/skills/portainer-control/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: portainer-control
description: Start, stop, or restart a Docker container on a Portainer-managed host. Use when asked to restart, stop, or start a specific container.
argument-hint: "<start|stop|restart> <container-name> [on <host>]"
user-invocable: true
allowed-tools: [Bash]
---

## User Input

```text
$ARGUMENTS
```

Control (start/stop/restart) a named container on a Docker host via the Portainer API.

## Steps

1. Parse `$ARGUMENTS`:
   - Extract action: `start`, `stop`, or `restart`
   - Extract container name
   - Extract host if specified after `on` (e.g. `on docker01`)

2. Run:

```bash
python3 ${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/scripts/portainer.py control <action> <container> [--host <host>]
```

   Example: `python3 ${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/scripts/portainer.py control restart grafana --host docker01`

3. Report the script output to the user.

4. If the script reports multiple matches, ask the user to specify the host.

5. If auth fails, tell the user to `export PORTAINER_TOKEN=ptr_...` before invoking. Generate one in Portainer: User Settings > Access Tokens.
